looppulse.web.simulator
=======================

Simulator for beacon events. It is currently supporting three modes:

0. fixed_debug
  -  A fixed and deterministic visitors routines will be generated.
  -  It doesn't connect with manager application.
  -  Sample config file: `server/settings.fixed.debug.sample.json`

1. continuous_debug
  -  Visitors will be generated continuosly
  -  It doesn't connect with manager application.
  -  Sample config file: `server/settings.continuous.debug.sample.json`

2. continuous_live
  -  Visitors will be generated continuosly
  -  It connects with a manager application.
  - Sample config file: `server/settings.continuous.live.sample.json`

Update config file:

0. fixed_debug
  -  `firebase` -> `root`: the firebase location receiving beacon_events generated by the simulator

1. continuous_debug
  -  `firebase` -> `root`: the firebase location receiving beacon_events/engagement_events generated by the simulator
  -  `engagementEvents` -> `firebaseURL`: the firebase location providing delivering_messages observed by the simulator
  -  `behaviour` -> simulation rules for visitor generation and behaviourial patterns. (More explanations below)

2. continuous_live
  -  `firebase` -> `config`: the firebase location providing beacon and product information.
  -  `application`: authentication path and token for the manager application.
  -  `engagementEvents` -> `firebaseURL`: the firebase location providing delivering_messages observed by the simulator
  -  `behaviour` -> simulation rules for visitor generation and behaviourial patterns. (More explanations below)

Virtual Clock

1. How does it work

Simulator supports setting a virtual clock, so you can generate events for any period of time, and for different speed. For example, if you want to populate data quickly for the last month to drive the application dashboard, you can set the virtual clock to be 1 month ago, with a speed of, say 1000 times. Then you will be able to populate the whole month's data quickly within an hour.

2. Configurations
  - startTimeBeforeNowInSeconds

    This indicates the start time of the virtual clock, by referecing the number of seconds before the current time. For example, setting it to 86400 (= 60 * 60 * 24) would set the virtual clock at exactly 1 day ago when the simulator starts.

  - speed

    This indicates the speed of the virtual clock. speed = 1 means normal speed. For example, setting it to 1000 would make the virual clock moves a thousand times faster then real world.

3. Caveat
Theoretically, the virtual clock can go beyond the real world time, by setting speed > 1, and run the simulator for enough time. While the simulator will work just fine, the application dashboard might behave weirdlywhen it contains future events. Make sure you understand what you're doing if you do intend to generate future events, or otherwise, just stop your simulator before the virtual clock goes beyond real time.

Simulation Rules

1. Terminologies
  - `VisitorType` specify a group of visitor, e.g. "Foodie"
  - `PeriodType` specify a type of time period, e.g. "MealTime", "RegularHours". A time period would include the proportion of visitor types, e.g. in "MealTime", there would be a lot more "Foodie" appears. It also contains the maximum number of visitors during that period.
  - `CategoryPreferences` specify the relative interests of the product categories of VisitorTypes. For example, a "Foodie" might have a higher tendency to visit "Food" product, and a lower tendency to visit "Kids" stuff.
  - `ProductPreferences` specify the relative interests of a particular product of VisitorTypes. For example, rather than having interests on a broader product category, a "McDonald Lover" might have a much higher tendency to visit "McDonald" product instead of other "Food" products.


2. How does it work
  1. Create a list of visitor types, each contains a set of category/product preferences. It also characterise the expected duration of staying in the product beacon. The duration is sampled with a normal distribution with mean and std (in seconds)
  2. Create a list of period types, each contains a set of "weights" correspond to the relative amount of visitor types being generated in that period.
  3. Define a day by splitting it into a sequence of periods. For example, from 12:00am to 7am is "RegularHours", 7am to 9am is "MealTime", so and so.

3. Sample configurations
  - `VisitorType`
    ```
    {
        "name": "Foodie",
        "stayTime": {
          "mean": 100,
          "std": 10
        },
        "categoryPreferences": [
          {
            "weight": 100,
            "categoryName": "Food"
          },
          {
            "weight": 2,
            "categoryName": "Kids"
          }
        ],
        "productPreferences": [
          {
            "productName": "Coco Curry House",
            "weight": 10
          }
        ]
    }
    ```
    Note: The default weight is 1.0 for all categories/products. So if no categoryPreferences are specified, then all categoreis are being picked equally likely. On the other than, a weight of 100 means it's 100 times more likely to being picked when compared to other items of weight 1.

  - `PeriodType`
    ```
    [
      {
        "name": "normal",
        "maxVisitors": 10,
        "visitors": [
          {
            "weight": 10,
            "visitorType": "Family"
          },
          {
            "weight": 100,
            "visitorType": "Foodie"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "name": "mealTime",
        "maxVisitors": 10,
        "visitors": [
          {
            "weight": 10,
            "visitorType": "Coco Lover"
          },
          {
            "weight": 1,
            "visitorType": "Family"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
    ```

  - `Period`
    ```
    [
      {
        "startMin": 0,
        "endMin": 420,
        "periodType": "normal"
      },
      {
        "startMin": 420,
        "endMin": 540,
        "periodType": "mealTime"
      },
      {
        "startMin": 540,
        "endMin": 1440,
        "periodType": "normal"
      }
    ]
    ```

    Note: Currently, periods are specified in a daily basis (1440 minutes). The basic unit is minute. You would explicitly mention that from minute X to minute Y is a certain period. The above example would mean that from minute 420 to minute 540 of the day (i.e. 7am to 9am) would be mealTime. Other than that, it's normal time.

A detailed sample configuration file can be found under the `server` directory.

3. Notes
  - CategoryPreferences is currently not supported in `continuous_debug` mode.

To remove data on remote Firebase:
1. `npm install firebase --save`
2. `URL="https://lp.firebaseio.com" SECRET="abc" node server/scripts/clear_firebase.js`
